hello and welcome to the
live stream as i get myself set up here
and apologies for the microphone
disturbances there
um
so this one will be a hard out today as
they say um i have a uh dinner
engagement in a little over an hour with
some old friends large group of us
actually so um i really have to finish
this at about 5 30 my time so we've got
40 minutes to get through a
lot of questions received on
twitter which are really interesting
ones some
are going to be a little bit tricky to
try and get done in the time i've
allotted myself here today
been a lot of activity when it comes to
top cast recently encourage anyone
watching this to
um view my origins video um that one
took a long time to produce putting
together all the images from the james
west space telescope researching that
explaining what it's all about and then
setting a musical score to it i didn't
write the music of course but
trying to get the music to work with the
words and all that kind of thing is a
bit difficult as i just said in my
substance newsletter
um some people don't appreciate the
music stuff i love those sort of videos
you know not necessarily mine in
particular but these sort of inspiring
kind of
videos filled with images and
explanations with the soundtrack but my
video whatever the case can be found on
my website without the music as well so
that's available and it's available on
all podcast feeds too let me get
straight into the questions because i'm
cognizant of the time i have uh left to
myself
logan logan chipkin has asked logan is a
great friend of the channel of topcast
logan is a an expert in constructor
theory
so anyone who's interested
in learning more about constructor
theory should get in contact with uh
chipkin logan and so
if you go to
the tweet that i recently put out asking
about uh questions for this ama the very
first question is being asked by
logan so let's um
let's just
i just got to remember what he is
i'm just looking at my mobile phone um
[Music]
how to get in contact with him because
he did
tell me and now i have neglected
to remember precisely what the message
was
um yeah so that the best way um is yeah
via via
twitter just via twitter if you've got
questions about
constructor theory he's the man to go to
he's the man to go to in the first
instance so he's very much working on
that so at chipkin c h i p k i n l o g a
n
contact him and he'll zoom call with you
he'll answer your questions via twitter
dm dms are open all that sort of stuff
and you know because you know the the
researchers like kiara and david are
obviously engaged in the research and
logan is engaged in outreach and so he's
really keen on talking to people about
the significance of constructor theory
yeah so contact him learning about
constructor theory he knows
also he he's got he's conducted
interviews himself with chiara marletto
about it
anyway so
expert on constructive theory is logan
let's
um have a look at what his question is
and i'm sure it's going to be a curly
one knowing logan our ability to employ
money and energy is currently hampered
by cocktails of bad ideas given current
cultural forces technologies
and our best explanations in the
relevant domains which if any of these
nasty cocktails is more easily defeat
defeatable yes yes prophecy impossible
so he's saying prophecy is impossible
there because
he knows that i know that i can't
possibly foresee what is the most easily
defeatable there's probably a hierarchy
of importance in these things so do you
put your energies into the most
important things which may be the
hardest to defeat or the lower hanging
fruit insofar as there is lower hanging
fruit what i've been animated by
recently is of course this is pervasive
pessimism um and i had to begin laughing
at it and you know my most recent
podcast that's out there is all about
sam harris's recent podcast most recent
podcast number 288 of the making sense
podcast specifically about
the end of the world you know he makes
no bones about it he's talking about the
end of the world he's talking about the
end of the world order he thinks
america's in decline well he and his
interlocutor who is an author of a book
all about this stuff we're just in
furious agreement more or less and they
had a third guest who also you know kind
of thought america's in decline and
the world is going to hell in a hand
basket very quickly
this is the
prevailing intellectual view so one
reason i listen to sam is he has
excellent guests but also it's he's a
barometer he's a barometer for
the
common intellectual zeitgeist you know
you go to sam's podcast and you
learn what
the smart people are thinking the people
with the credentials the people from the
universities the people with
lots of books to their name lots of
letters after their name
lots of experience working in public
policy government science and all that
sort of stuff so it's good to hear what
they say
um
and
so i think in answer to logan's question
the cocktail of bad ideas
fundamentally reduced to an
anti-humanism that logan would agree
with this
um
which of these cocktails more easily i
don't know if any of them are easily
defeatable i think if we can defeat one
we end up defeating them all it's almost
like the agi problem you know you figure
out how creativity works and maybe you
figure out what consciousness is as well
on top of that well some of us think
that and mysteries associated with the
human mind might all be solved if you
solve any one of them in the same way
this pervasive pessimism that exists now
um
has to be counted
from many different directions the
schooling is a bad one obviously the
professors are indoctrinating each other
with pessimistic ideas
in particular they are indoctrinating
teaching students students who go along
to the university to learn to be
teachers who then go on to
indoctrinate school children
who then grow up to indoctrinate their
own children and go on to become
teachers and so the cycle continues this
priesthood as naval rubber count calls
it you know you
the only people allowed into these
institutions and to make it through
these institutions have to be ordained
into the pessimistic worldview
we need an alternative to that and i've
been talking about this recently i think
the universities still do good work and
they have an important function to serve
but there needs to be a free market
approach to this thing and we need a way
to
have an alternative i've talked about
this before
so i don't have an answer to logan
any better than logan himself would have
as to
which is most easily defeatable it seems
to me like
socialism is here to stay for a while
unfortunately we're both on the same
page there the people
like governments they want government to
be the solution
rather than seeing government as the
problem
they don't like paying taxes themselves
but they think there's a moral virtue to
paying tax because it helps everyone
there's
all of this sort of stuff you know if we
can undo these bad ideas it's all about
the ideas
somehow we have to undo these ideas
so easily defeatable perhaps
perhaps
the incremental gradual undoing of
coercive compulsory schooling
would be
one of the more easily defeatable things
and i think we'll eliminate schooling
entirely but at least we can
reduce the
the uh
coercive elements of schooling more of
the coercive elements of schooling you
know asymptotically approach
the time when
no one's going to school but it's not
going to happen overnight so if we can
fix the curricula
if con if people who are not
super woke
lefty
verging on the side of communists
if
they weren't always
given a free ride through the
institutions then maybe
that's one of the more easily
defeatable things we can do the people
on our side when they actually occupy
positions of power actually use it to
change people's minds and do something
that
actually use their power to remove
people who occupy positions of power in
these institutions if you know what i
mean if politicians who get into power
can remove some of the bureaucrats that
would be good it's been happening
recently right you get these so-called
conservative governments in places like
britain i don't like talk about politics
too much but places like britain places
like united states places like
australia they can't do much because the
bureaucracy is still against them
and so well
so that was a non-answer to logan's
question let's uh go into arjun another
great friend of the channel how far can
the
darwinian natural selection analogy
extend to criticism of ideas and
theories i.e survival of the fittest
theories when if it does start to
mislead the explanation of either one or
both the nature of evolution of species
and the selection of ideas so what i
would say there is that yeah it's kind
of an analogy and kind of not an analogy
this idea because papa subtitled his
book objective knowledge and
evolutionary approach so it's absolutely
evolution of a kind what we're doing is
replacing
theories with better theories they're
being tested against reality and we're
error correcting which is precisely what
biological organisms do as well
and so
um
yes it's it's an analogy but slightly
stronger than an analogy but also don't
take it too
far in the sense that
biological evolution is of course a
blind process there's no intelligence
there directing it and human beings are
intelligent and are directing
the creative deployment and um
generation of explanatory knowledge
so that's
that's the thing
the difference between
you know blind you know searching for
solutions and intelligently searching
for solutions creatively searching for
solutions so that's the parallels
between them there is an analogy they're
both about creating knowledge ones
explanatory knowledge one's genetic
knowledge uh
yeah
when if it does start to mislead it
starts to mislead when people think that
it's a kind of
random process of
a kind a in in the case of explanatory
knowledge so it's not random it's it's
it's it's it's uh intelligence that's
hasn't has a goal in mind there's no
goal when it comes to
survival of the fittest okay you can
call it a goal you know the genes are
trying to survive but they're not really
trying we are trying we have a goal we
want to survive we want to solve that
particular problem we have wants so
that's that's a subtle well not a subtle
it's a stark difference
ashika asks
since physical world has laws laws of
physics governing it what do you think
about world of minds world
two
could also have laws governing it if yes
how could we discover them absolutely
yeah that well we live in a reality
broadly speaking now
papa partitions this up into worlds one
two and three
uh how useful that is i don't know
certainly there's a difference between
the purely physical world of made of
particles
and then the abstract world which
consists of ideas and theories and so on
and also the abstractions themselves so
numbers are not numerals but numbers
exist
the prime numbers exist there are prime
numbers that exist that we have not
discovered yet they're out there they're
not made of matter so these worlds exist
and they're governed by laws so in the
same way that we have laws of physics
governing the behavior of matter yes we
have
laws of mathematics for example
governing the behavior of abstract sets
of
numbers and patterns music is not made
of matter though it's vibrations within
the matter the harmonies and so on are
governed by laws that aren't reducible
to
you know laws of physics
and
the world of the mind has to be governed
by thing the way in which the generation
of ideas occurs is governed by things
which we only understand
poorly what do you think about
well can it have law so the answer i'm
doing short answers today i apologize to
everyone got to get through these
um could it also have laws governing the
answer is yes if yes how could we
discover them by the same mechanism that
we use elsewhere except maybe we can't
use experimentation but we have to
conjecture and then we have to criticize
our conjectures testing them against
reality mathematicians don't do
experiments as such they're not going
into a laboratory they're absolutely
testing against certain criteria they're
seeing whether or not a theorem follows
from given axioms they're criticizing
their hypotheses so to speak well
they're theorems they're conjectures
literally called conjectures so
that's one thing
a musician is
testing ideas an artist is testing ideas
against internal criteria they have
which can still represent objective
standards of reality objective standards
of beauty and so on and so forth so
that's the answer to that mart van
meegan asks what is the cr view of first
principle reasoning
i don't know what the cr view version is
what i would say is that first principle
reasoning doesn't require us to begin at
a particular place all it says is can we
have a
coherent picture of reality so going
back to first principles means beginning
with our fundamental ideas what then
follows if you're trying to
do engineering on a particular physical
structure and you're not sure about
whether it works well let's begin with
the literal fundamentals of let's say
newtonian mechanics is the thing going
to stand up
if you're an architect it might be a
good way to go rather than just
inventing a new pretty artistic looking
structure
you don't want it to get to the
engineering stage and then civil
engineers turn around and go well that's
ridiculous there's no way this thing is
going to stand up you can be the
greatest architect in the world and has
an artistic vision but if you don't
realize that the laws of physics are
going to cause this thing to topple over
there's no point even beginning the
project unless you're inventing
structures for a fictional world so
first principle reasoning means going
back to
the laws
that govern
the
emergent thing that you're interested in
trying to
solve the problem of you've got a
problem
and that problem is going to be
solved either by
the creative generation of a new piece
of emergent knowledge and insofar as you
can't do that then go deeper
think about what
the
principles already known the background
knowledge already known by yourself and
civilization are so you can make
progress forward background knowledge is
a thing
background knowledge means what do you
already know what do you already know so
that's what i would say first principles
reasoning happens to be beginning with
what you know
and and and yeah solving problems via
that mechanism of the deepest
explanations that we have
randell brett what is the quickest way
to take in
beyond infinity
i i guess it means the beginning of
infinity um
the quickest way the quickest way
i don't know maybe start with the
podcast i did with naval on the vales
podcast that's a two-part podcast that
runs each one runs for about an hour
it's made up of lots of little points we
try to traverse much of the world view
of david deutch so that could be
a way to take in the basic ideas for
some people
for whatever reason they begin the book
and then put the book down and never
pick it up again
but yeah so maybe for such people but
they they think that's important still
because everyone else is talking about
it
maybe then yeah going via the podcast
route
as i say you know going via naval's
podcast would would be a great benefit
that's an introduction that's an in
david deutsch has done lots of
interviews um he's done ted talk ted
talks are a great way in to the
beginning of infinity way of thinking
about the world and then go back to the
book i don't think there's any
substitute for the book as such
the quickest way to take it in however i
you know people talk down i don't know
why people talk down audio books and yet
i love audio books i tend to remember
audio books better sometimes than i do
text
some human beings might be like this but
i know that if i'm listening to an audio
book or a podcast and i walk around my
local neighborhood i know the local
neighborhood pretty well as people do
then i can remember
precisely what i was listening to down
to the sentence and word and phrase if i
just picture where i was at the time
during the walk and vice versa you know
if i re-listen back to it i go oh i can
remember i was outside of that shop at
the time and so this is why i think
audiobooks are good because it's got a
natural mnemonic to it
i use both the audio book and the text
and i go backwards and forwards between
them but for me personally if i want to
consume a book quickly i do the audio
book i do the audio book i just got a
big long walk if it's a new book
and often that's when i decide you know
listening to audio book i'm not going to
do a podcast about that book
but i will do a podcast about this book
you know pinker was one like that i
listened through and i thought i got to
do a podcast about this because
there's some good stuff but there's so
many misconceptions as well
okay
dr satish
ganorka has asked karl poppa writing is
vast any book that will explain it in a
concise way and a person called sati
sapreet has answered kyle popper by
brian mcgee which is the answer
the answer is one answer yes absolutely
i think that's a great answer um brian
mcgee mcgee uh
was a british politician
he also has a series of interviews
online with famous philosophers he wrote
a book called papa it's a very thin
volume but it's great it covers the the
basic ideas so in you know well under
100 pages you get
dense material of good stuff so i think
that's a way that we'll explain in a
concise way
and if you're new to it as many people
have advised before
you're interested in karl popper you're
interested in critical rationalism then
don't go to karl popper go to david
deutch go to the fabric of reality go to
the beginning of infinity and then if
you're still wanting more then you go to
karl popper or read around him david
miller was a collaborator with karl
pogba and has written books about
critical rationalism as well so all of
there are there are various ways i
wouldn't go to universities
all they are is
going to
present popular in an incorrect light
that's one thing
the i hate to say it i'm going to have
to say
the typical university academic who
claims expertise in poplar is going to
get it wrong
university academics need to publish or
perish so they're going to be writing
papers so they'll be
perhaps misinterpreting popular and then
publishing papers based upon a bad
reading of papa
so
go to david deutsch in the first
instance go to brian
mcgee um read karl popper's um
his autobiography his intellectual
autobiography
unended quest i think it's called
something like that
yeah so um that's a really great
weighing in as well it's a fun read
because it's about his life but also
it's entirely about his philosophy and
how he came to the problems that he was
interested in and how he came up with
the solutions okay so that's that uh
hervey sorry if i'm getting names wrong
here
suppose we have a theory of creativity
in an a and are able to create universal
explainers from an ethical perspective
do you think that they would decide for
against instantiating copies of
themselves and four against
instantiating universal explainers and
simulations
i'm going to use logan's
uh
little quip earlier a prophecy is not a
thing right i don't know a universal
explainer is a person so how can i
possibly guess the mind of these people
and what they'll want to do morally what
do i think of
making copies of yourself
i don't know i haven't thought enough
about it i don't
making a copy of yourself isn't making
yourself
so if you were able to take a copy of
your mind
somehow or other instantiate it in
silicon reproduce yourself in a robot
then what you've got over there is a
copy of yourself that is not you it's a
copy of you and from that moment onward
because it's in a different place having
different experiences it's going to be
thinking different things sure it's
going to think very similar things for a
while but you're from that moment
onwards diverging into completely
different people
you are completely different people and
you become more and more different over
time in the same way that fungible
instances of yourself across the
multiverse also become different over
time as time goes on
um
morally in terms
what i think about these things these
are
um um those kind it's trolley problems
trolley problems you know these things
don't happen in real life insofar as
they do let's deal with it when it comes
let's talk about the problems now what
problems exist now i can think of what
this is why doomsday scenarios and the
work of people like nick bostrom it just
seemed to me like such a waste of time
such a waste of intellectual talent and
mental capacity because
far better to deal with the problems now
and to focus philosophical and
scientific effort on the real problems
we have right now hey inflation is a
thing what can we do why isn't everyone
talking about that ukraine is the thing
let's talk about that philosophy can
help with these things as well as
science and politics and all of that
stuff
talking about the doomsday scenarios of
the next millennium or the next century
let's deal with it then we have what
papa refers to as problem situations
so
what might the agi of the year 2100 do
when it comes to making copies
themselves i don't know but i'll give
you an answer then okay when it's
actually an issue we'll talk about it
then
i don't want to be dismissive
jesse another great friend of uh topcast
institutional knowledge is largely
inexplicit in politics or science what
should be made more explicit and is it
always better to have explicit knowledge
or do we
want more background inexplicit
knowledge to decrease the cognitive load
oh interesting
so
cognitive load isn't a thing i don't
think i think that people can get
confused
and bored maybe tired you know you hear
these things that in fact
there's
no such thing as the brain being tired
or the mind being tired what happens is
you get bored of course you can get
physically tired but you get bored so i
don't know about cognitive load being a
thing you know you just get loaded up
with
so much information that you can't
handle it anymore
i think that's just um itself a kind of
knowledge as to whether or not you can
deal with streams of information and
deal with new ideas and some people just
get sort of hyper and they call that
being overwhelmed but that's a whole
other question
when it comes to
institutional knowledge being largely
explicit that's correct so
if we just talk about normal political
institutions you know the way in which
parliaments work and why
you know my hobbyhorse
why dynamic societies that are advanced
how they're able to remain stable over
long periods of time
we don't know all the reasons why we can
talk about democracy
freedom liberty capitalism
we can talk about the rule of law
we can talk about these things that have
inexplicit knowledge instantiated in
them and we can make explicit some
things we can say well
you know you need to have elections
regularly
you need to have courts to
decide
when
different arms of the government are
disagreeing with each other as to who is
correct you need a criminal system of
police these have institutions
why do you need all these things
precisely why we can list some reason
but you won't have an exhaustive reason
and you won't convince people who are
for example anarcho-capitalists or pure
communists why we shouldn't have a
revolution or move towards
a system without institutions or a
system with an institution that is
completely different to what we have now
you can't explain it to them entirely
because it's not explicit but here's the
thing
the british tradition in the american
tradition in places like
australia are relatively stable compared
to anywhere else in the world compared
to anywhere else in the world
there have been revolutions in britain
but of all the places on planet earth it
has the fewest revolutions and the least
amount of violence and all of that sort
of stuff
by comparison over a long period of time
able to make progress
creating wealth
and as people like douglas murray say
people are fighting to get into these
countries the places where people are
fighting dignity into the united states
chief among them
britain areas of europe australia
there's something that people know
that are trying to get in there namely
it's better than the places they're
fleeing from
which are the vast majority of countries
around the world okay people are trying
to get out of certain countries and into
other countries the countries they're
trying to get into have something going
for them and we can't outline exactly
everything that's going for them
why they're filled with peace and
prosperity and the
capacity for opportunity and wealth
but there are reasons
what should we try and make explicit as
much as we possibly can but that's work
for
other people i leave that to the
political scientists insofar as they can
do a good job of that but we've made
some things explicit you know papa made
explicit the idea of what democracy's
for making explicit that democracy is
not about installing the best leader
it's about having a system that enables
you to remove bad leaders without
violence
rather efficiently has just happened or
is in the process of happening in
britain again for the
umpteenth time in their history removing
a leader they didn't want and no
violence
unlike in sri lanka where the
you have to call that violence right i
mean the people there are occupying the
presidential palace the prime minister's
residence
the institution so they got rid of him
probably rightly so because of the level
inflation and everything that went wrong
another story okay so anyway there is
this institutional knowledge largely
explicit totally agree we can't make it
all explicit i don't really entirely
know how
triple dollar sign has asked what does
it exactly mean for a guest to survive
criticism error correction and thus
qualifies knowledge
this question was asked last time i
answered it last time
um
and you know i i won't repeat myself
it's in the other live stream i'm not
sure why dollar signs asking it again
but what it means is that it's the
guess that has been tested against
reality and it's the only surviving one
so general relativity is a theory that
survives criticism
and so what does it mean for it to
survive criticism it's solving all the
problems that the other theories can't
that's the answer okay we'll skip to
taras what role do you think dreams will
play in our ability to create knowledge
and make progress i find their potential
to be enormous for generating new ideas
but most tend to overlook them i think
because many people forget their dreams
i know that people dream every night but
many people forget their dreams and say
they don't have them certainly there
have been cases of scientists and
intellectuals throughout history feynman
was one among others the
was it watson or crick who said that he
saw uh the structure of dna in a dream
dreams are just sources of guesses
absolutely our subconscious is a thing
our unconscious is a thing we can get
information from these places and so
yeah absolutely dreams can be a source
of knowledge it's just that it's hard to
criticize them what do i think about
our ability to make progress yeah it's
good it's just not reliable
the potential to be enormous perhaps it
is perhaps we can tap it in some way
perhaps we're just skimming the surface
when it comes to
our
capacity to
harness
what our mind is capable of doing and
other people talk about that a lot but
for now you know i'm personally
interested in what we already know what
we already know is our conscious mind
can solve problems our unconscious mind
can do stuff people are investigating
that it's not a reliable way in which to
solve your problems so if you've got a
real problem maybe going off to sleep
once or twice is better and then you'll
have a better idea in the morning or
during a dream but really if you've got
a problem you better think about it okay
sleeping
thinking that it's gonna come up during
a dream not possibly not the best way to
go
okay let's go to the next one jet iphone
what could move humans from a
competition mindset for land food gold
data et cetera to a cooperation mindset
if humans are going to handle the
climate change and colonize the universe
it seems like we should be pulling those
in the same direction thanks for your
ideas no i don't agree i don't think we
need to be pulling yours in the same
direction at all um i think cooperation
and competition are not necessarily
antagonistic they're not necessarily
at odds with one another after all huge
groups of people can cooperate together
on the scale of
dozens hundreds thousands millions
there's a sense in which whole nations
are cooperating
and at least whole science of politics
hundreds of millions of people
cooperating in order to do the same
thing
we don't need the entire globe to
cooperate and do the same thing because
then my idea is that
you're putting all your eggs into one
basket into one particular solution the
solution that you've all decided you're
going to cooperate on
and meanwhile you're not looking out for
the asteroid that's coming behind you
because you're looking at the asteroid
coming in front of you metaphorically
speaking so when it comes to climate
change we don't all have to join
together and to pull in the same
direction no we need everyone to be
doing their own thing and insofar as
we've got hundreds of millions perhaps
billions of people really interested in
solving the problem of climate change
that's enough i mean heck has there ever
been a problem with more human
intellectual power geared towards the
solving of it i don't think so every you
know people around the world
whole portions of nations are
fixated upon trying to solve climate
change so insofar as there are certain
people who aren't fixated on that or
even arguing against it i wouldn't be
worried if you're a climate change
advocate i really wouldn't worry because
you've got enough people on your side
you don't need everyone i don't need
everyone to be a critical rationalist i
don't need everyone to be an optimist i
don't need everyone to be on board with
spreading the ideas the beginning
infinity i'd like it if they were i
don't need everyone to be a capitalist
the diversity of ideas is always going
to be better because i could be wrong
and i want to know quickly if i am wrong
so should the climate change activists
by the way they need people to be
criticizing them for any given problem
no matter how big it could be the case
that you might be misconceived you could
it could be the case so
we need competition and we need
cooperation they shouldn't be seen as at
odds with one another
i am going to struggle to get through
these questions in the next few minutes
as i say
dinner date
calls um
the sar castigator could human
consciousness be nothing more than the
act of creating explanations yes
yes it could be anything at this point
as long as it doesn't violate the laws
of physics
i've written a blog post about this
creativity consciousness free will and
explanations knowledge creation
something or other i don't know and i
make that point i get it from david
deutsch credit to him in the beginning
of affinity he kind of hints at he
doesn't
lay out a theory he's not saying this is
what he really thinks he's just saying
it's possible it's possible that things
like
explanation generation and consciousness
come along together for the ride and i
say yeah yeah
whatever free will is
whatever our capacity to create
explanations is
whatever consciousness is all of these
things together could just be
facets of the one whole thing and that
one whole thing we don't know what it is
but once we have it that will be the
explanation that will solve all the
other things and the other thing is
we'll just go oh that's why
consciousness is what it is that's why
being able to generate explanations is
what it is ah that's why free will is a
thing and so on and so forth
we haven't got that yet we've just got
these labels for mysteries and so yes i
agree with you could it be yes it could
be could it perhaps be something
completely different to what i just said
yes
no one knows what consciousness is it's
we're barely able to coherently put the
question
um
any well-known examples of a scientist
renouncing his own theory after working
on it for many years if not decades any
renouncing his own theory perhaps
someone in the comments could tell me
that i can't think of
anyone in particular i guess you think
of someone like nicholson nicholson
you know
michael moore arthur nicholson michael
nicholson i can't remember physicists
anyway who did the participate in the
nicholson-morley experiment famous for
saying that physics was coming to an end
in the early 1900s then went on to
perform the experiment
that helped to demonstrate that
newtonian physics could not be correct
and he went on therefore
to
contribute to certainly relativity
quantum theory so he must have i can't
give you a quote but he must have
thought well everything i said up until
that point about how physics was just
about finished and newton had discovered
all of the laws of physics was
completely wrong so he he gave up that
idea now that's not specifically
renouncing his own theory it's a theory
about theories
but
any well-known examples of the
scientists renouncing
is anyone giving me an answer yeah
someone has asked i've just looked over
are you familiar with peter zehan ideas
that's from bahan my most recent podcast
is precisely about peter ziehan
look that up okay so that's on youtube
it's a response video to sam harris but
it's basically about the ideas of peter
zing
okay so anyone watching is interested
just yeah look up my last podcast better
um okay this is going to be rapid fire
at the next fuel i apologize to people
i'll do another live stream
and the end of next week or the week
after something like that
um
entrepreneur this is from daniel
entrepreneurs who decide today to set up
a new business have to try and predict
what some number of consumer preferences
are going to be in the future if their
prediction is successful the business
will thrive is trying to predict what
people will want in the future prophecy
they're not trying so much to predict
what people want in the future is trying
to unsolve a problem now people have a
problem now ideally what a business is
doing what a person who is producing a
product is doing is solving a problem
solving a particular problem and if
they're solving a problem then their
product will be a solution to that which
is
not so much trying to
figure out what consumer preferences
will be
as here's the problem let's solve it now
sometimes you get geniuses you know the
the steve jobs of the world who go
well people don't even know they've got
this problem you know the old smartphone
idea you don't even know you've got the
problem of
wanting to have all your music in
a phone wanting to have access to the
internet from your phone
wanting to make phone calls emails you
want to have your entire life in a phone
you don't even know you've got that
problem
but i'm going to give you the solution
and then you'll realize aha
i'm solving all of these problems all in
one way but
you have to identify the problem it's
not so much predicting preferences as
identifying problems people have now and
then solving them yeah rather than
thinking in terms of prediction prophecy
vincent
beyond the jaw-dropping pitches what is
the positive impact james webb will
likely produce that nobody is talking
about i don't know what nobody is
talking about
we can't predict exactly what
james webb will lead to
but it's certainly inspiring people i
think one of the great things despite
the scientism that has been increasing
over the last few years at least there
is a resurgence now an interest in
science
ostensibly people talking about in
positive ways science and astronomy and
of course i like people to be interested
in astronomy and astrophysics and
cosmology and all that sort of stuff so
i think that's one great thing that the
james webb will do it will get people
interested
in
the physical sciences again
kids interested in perhaps being
inspired by the physical sciences again
hubble was already doing that this is
just going to level it up even more
people are going to move into
fundamental science they're going to
okay here's one thing that people aren't
talking about
if i'm right
that people are going to be inspired to
get into physics astronomy because of
james webb because of the pretty
pictures
they'll want to
be able to find a way to contribute to
fundamental science
but because of the poverty of education
that exists now
in existing institutions to a large
extent maybe going back to what i said
earlier
people will demand a different way of
doing science and learning science and
will finally have something rise up in
the place of the universities that's
what i really hope for and so perhaps
that is a thing people aren't talking
about and that can be in part caused by
something as simple as pretty pictures
from the james webb space telescope
people
wanting to come into science but not
wanting to have to go through the
university system so some people are
working on that um
now okay so now i'm going to go through
the and again very quickly people who
have asked questions now just on youtube
virgil has asked what is the best career
choice to advance david's ideas in
worldview quantum computing i don't know
uh quantum computing is certainly worth
going into i can't give people
particular career advice depends on what
your interests are if you want to
advance david's idea get out there tweet
blog make youtubes podcasts talk to
people um uh
you know
be an optimist and and and an object
when people are saying the world is
going to rack and ruin and that you need
to pay higher taxes because only the
government can save you so
what is the best career choice it's like
literally anything it you can you know
whatever career you're in at the moment
you can promote the world view that is
optimistic and counter to the prevailing
intellectual zeitgeist um a deal
uh high bret can you please explain what
it means
for a theory to be falsifiable or not
for example is the theory of evolution
where natural selection falls fire well
you've picked one there is the theory of
evolution by selection falsifiable some
people say that the theory of evolution
by natural selection is a so-called
research program which is a broader
category than theory it's an explanation
but within that
research program you do experiments none
of which can possibly falsify
the theory of evolution which does not
make it
uh sort of unscientific it could make it
non-science why do we say this well
haldane said you know
when asked what would falsify evolution
by natural selection he said
rabbits in the pre-cambrian by which he
meant you know the existence of rabbits
in a strata of rock you know before the
dinosaurs existed would be inexplicable
but it wouldn't be inexplicable it would
just mean that it would be a problem for
evolution so evolution could explain
that it could say that evolution
happened faster in that particular place
than anywhere else
and then those rabbits went extinct so
it wouldn't technically falsify
evolution by natural selection
so
evolution by natural selection can be
just in the same way that
you could ask the question what could
possibly falsify papa's
theory of falsification well that's the
wrong question to ask
okay so um
what what it means for what it means for
a theory to be fortifiable is is there
an experiment such that
when you have two competing good
explanations
one or all the others can be ruled out
leaving only one in its place that's
what falsifial means can be physically
testable in principle in principle it
doesn't mean in practice in practice you
might not be able to
build the apparatus and so on and so
forth okay i really sort of have to go
unfortunately
just finished the episode about sam
harris great view thank you maxine have
you heard about carl fristan's free
energy principle it seems to resonate
with caramel lettuce yeah these free
energy id well there's there's lots of
energy in the vacuum of space and so
yeah perhaps they could be um
harnessed in some way we don't know
any thoughts on scott anderson joining
open ai are we going to see quantum
machine learning soon i don't know yeah
but
it's pretty cool but i don't know enough
about quantum machine learning and what
the possibilities are there adele what
kind of mathematics is best to learn if
you want to learn quantum mechanics
well
it can be done with a minimum amount
these days people simply learn about
matrices and they can learn a lot of
quantum theory um but
look up the university of new south
wales they have a research that's in
australia they have a research center in
sydney and they teach people quantum uh
quantum computation so that's um yeah
worth thinking about
or quantum mechanics you are it's not
quantum computation quantum mechanics is
is every all areas someone's answered
quantum mechanics learn linear algebra
complex numbers calculate yeah yeah all
that stuff and as i say uh
the mathematics of matrices matrix
mathematics is a also another way
there's the heisenberg view of doing
things but you need differential
equations in the traditional way to
learn normal
mathematics so it's lots and lots of
calculus the traditional route to
learning quantum theory is differential
equations evernote literally the media
might cover up the numbers about how
many people are leaving and joining each
country okay um
answer that
um and that's that uh
aniket
why is it not possible for
quantum computing
to be simulated on a classical community
oh it can be absolutely it just will be
too slow
the whole point of quantum computation
is that
you have this massive speed up for a
certain
class of computations because of the
massive parallelism that's going on you
can simulate that with a classical
computer but just at a much much slower
rate so that's that defeats the whole
purpose yeah
um
dummy do you think examination tests
help us in creating new ideas new
unless you're writing the questions
yourself greetings from the philippines
what is the best way to thank you what
is the best way to learn game theory i
don't know look up game theory i'm sorry
okay so i think that's all the serious
questions um
until next time i'm sorry i have to cut
this very short
spoken very quickly but as i say um
things to do now until next time bye